docs/protocol/Routing.md, before:

# Routing

Accumulate is partitioned into multiple block validator networks (BVNs) plus one
directory network (DN). Identities are partitioned across these subnetworks.
Almost all identities are partitioned to a BVN. A few identities are partitioned
to the DN. The routing algorithm determines how identities are partitioned
across the BVNs and DN.

The routing table consists of a list of routes consisting of a prefix length,
value, and subnet ID, plus a set of overrides consisting of an account URL and a
subnet ID. Routes are matched to identities by taking the first N bits of the
account ID (the prefix length) and comparing it to the value. Thus, routes match
blocks of identities by account ID. Each override matches a single identity,
allowing control of the routing of specific identities.

The routing table must be unambiguous. Every identity must match exactly one
route. This means in effect that the routes describe a bitwise trie (prefix
tree) with no empty leafs. For example, this routing table:

| Prefix | Subnet |
| ------ | ------ |
| 00     | BVN A  |
| 01     | BVN B  |
| 10     | BVN C  |
| 110    | BVN D  |
| 111    | BVN E  |

is equivalent to this radix trie:

- 00 → BVN A
- 01 → BVN B
- 10 → BVN C
- 11 ↴
  - 0 → BVN D
  - 1 → BVN E

Commit message:

chore(prot): Rename subnet to partition [AC-1600]
Closes [AC-1600]. Rename subnet to partition

## Review Checklist

**If any item is not complete, the merge request is not ready to be reviewed and must be marked `Draft:`.**

- [ ] The merge request title is in the format `<change type>(<change scope>): <short description> [<task id>]`
  - For example, `feat(cli): add QR code generation [AC-123]`
  - For details, see [CONTRIBUTING.md](/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [ ] The description includes `Closes <jira task ID>` (or rarely `Updates <jira task ID>`)
- [ ] The change is fully validated by tests that are run during CI
  - In most cases this means a test in "validate.sh"
  - In some cases, a Go test may be acceptable
  - Validation is not applicable to things like documentation updates
  - Purely UI/UX changes can be manually validated, such as changes to human-readable output
  - For all other changes, automated validation tests are an absolute requirement unless a maintainer specifically explains why they are not in a comment on this merge request
- [ ] The change is marked with one of the validation labels
  - ~"validation::ci/cd" for changes validated by CI tests
  - ~"validation::manual" for changes validated by hand
  - ~"validation::deferred" for changes validated by a follow up merge request
  - ~"validation::not applicable" for changes where validation is not applicable

## Merge Checklist

- [ ] CI is passing
- [ ] Merge conflicts are resolved
- [ ] All discussions are resolved

Related to AC-1600

docs/protocol/Routing.md, after:

# Routing

Accumulate is partitioned into multiple block validator networks (BVNs) plus one
directory network (DN). Identities are partitioned across these partition works.
Almost all identities are partitioned to a BVN. A few identities are partitioned
to the DN. The routing algorithm determines how identities are partitioned
across the BVNs and DN.

The routing table consists of a list of routes consisting of a prefix length,
value, and partition ID, plus a set of overrides consisting of an account URL
and a partition ID. Routes are matched to identities by taking the first N bits
of the account ID (the prefix length) and comparing it to the value. Thus,
routes match blocks of identities by account ID. Each override matches a single
identity, allowing control of the routing of specific identities.

The routing table must be unambiguous. Every identity must match exactly one
route. This means in effect that the routes describe a bitwise trie (prefix
tree) with no empty leafs. For example, this routing table:

| Prefix | Partition |
| ------ | --------- |
| 00     | BVN A     |
| 01     | BVN B     |
| 10     | BVN C     |
| 110    | BVN D     |
| 111    | BVN E     |

is equivalent to this radix trie:

- 00 → BVN A
- 01 → BVN B
- 10 → BVN C
- 11 ↴
  - 0 → BVN D
  - 1 → BVN E
